hey what's up there's a fad right now of
so-called digital nomadism taking the
word nomadism and using it to encourage
people to live a certain kind of
reckless and irresponsible life and for
me it's very strange to reflect on it
because that's a life I feel I was
forced into living that I didn't want to
live but that circumstances beyond my
control forced me to live for many many
years I know what it's like to live out
of an apartment in Hong Kong and to be
prepared to pack up and move to another
city the next month or the next week at
any time I lived that way for many many
years in Asia but in reality even when I
lived in Europe and in Canada for most
of my adult life that was how was living
with no sense of permanence for many
many years I remember saying to my my
ex-wife I lived without owning a table
you know just even investing in
furniture you do the bare minimum or
less because at any given time you've
gotta pack it in and move on the type of
nomadism I suffered or I endured
including episodes such as being exiled
from Laos Laos as a small country in
Southeast Asia with death threats from
government officials when I left Laos I
had nothing but my backpack and my
bicycle and actually most of my money
was in a bank account inside Laos that I
couldn't get at so I was really in a
situation like a refugee after that were
very very difficult situation but he but
before that and after that too I have
lived a life where the type of nomadism
I've endured has been forced upon me I
remember visiting a friend's apartment
in Cambodia and seeing that he had set
up little glass jars with spices and tea
bags and other kitchen ingredients on
the walls and I just remarked to him
it's been so many years since I did
anything like that you know i just did
not live that way
as an adult basically after I finished
University the first time I instead
lived in a state of of nomadism I would
not even be call it digital nomadism
although like everyone else my life was
enabled by the internet and for me I
mean what's now kind of a fad about
minimalism the type of of minimalistic
life I got used to having to put
everything into a backpack in a suitcase
and move on I wouldn't want to use the
word minimalist for it but it was
minimal now still today I've now lived
in this part of Canada for more than a
year but a lot of these habits haunt me
and I'm now packing up to move again in
this whole apartment I own two cups i'm
going to show you one of them they're
identical that's a metal cup aluminium
cup I own two cups I own no glasses
ionno other mugs that's it two cups so I
can wash one and the other ones ready to
go that's it I own two bowls they're
also stainless steel you've actually
seen them on camera at some of my videos
two bowls no plates no other dishware of
any kind two bowls so it's not possible
for me to let dirty dishes stack up in
the kitchen at any one time one of the
bowls is in use the other ones being
washed or on the shelf that's it so it
is strange for me to see people praising
or glorifying a lifestyle so-called
digital nomadism so-called minimalism
and the permanent vacation as i call it
under under many different headings
glorifying a lifestyle especially in
Asia of quitting your job in the Western
world of quitting your hometown of
leaving behind your cares and
responsibilities in America Canada or
England to seek out this kind of life in
Thailand now I did live in Thailand for
it adds up to quite a lot of time
Thailand is one of the places I live but
for me it wasn't a vacation I was in
Thailand because of a combination of
humanitarian interest seeking
humanitarian work research interests
that includes language and historical
work I was there partly because the jobs
I could get and when I first arrived in
Thailand I was employed by the museum
Service National Museum service of the
country I actually attended meetings in
the equivalent to their their Parliament
building is actually a building that's
just called Government House I met you
know senior government officials so when
I first went there I had a reasonable
paying job that let me say up a little
money and then when I quit that job then
I was I was truly nomadic to say the
least I was really in a situation being
homeless end up living in Vienna and the
capital city of Laos but again I I was
driven to be there you know ultimately
by ambitions I've said many times the
channel ambition is not just about money
ambition can be about accomplishing all
kinds of things like humanitarian work
and ambition ultimately is about shaping
type of person you want to be now I had
I had a lot of reservations about
Thailand but Thailand Laos Cambodia
Myanmar Sri Lanka there's a large part
of the world that I wanted to devote the
rest of my life to both in terms of
scholarship and in terms of humanitarian
work but the disadvantages of nomadism
were obvious to me from the start before
I embarked on that journey I knew what
it was to live in one place in Toronto I
knew what it was to go to City Hall and
give depositions at City Hall I knew
what it was to be involved in local
politics and Canada is not that big a
country if you keep showing up at
Parliament any Parliament whether it's
provincial federal or you know local
something like City Hall if you just
show up regularly you know the
politicians start to recognize you some
of the politicians there they knew me
even
they didn't know my name like you know I
remember one of the famous politicians
at the time guy who later ran for Prime
Minister Canada but I remember when I
wasn't he referred to me as our bald
friend look he heard me speak at a few
things he knew what was the guy who
stood up and you know I don't blame him
for not remember my name it's not my
point my point is that politics is
actually small enough and you start
participating you start even in a
totally informal volunteer capacity
people start to recognize you including
people in power and if you have any
talents if you're contributing anything
positive they'll remember you positively
so it was very much aware of the local
and pragmatic aspect of politics and
again i can say actually for myself
autobiographically for me that was also
partly a way to escape the madness of
abstract and international politics I
knew the insanity of communism of
left-wing extremism in general I knew
history on the level of wars of
international politics this kind of
great conflict and I knew that someone
like myself could not make a positive
contribution those areas but someone
like myself could show up at City Hall
do research that was relevant to the
issue being debated that day at that
meeting at City Hall I could show up and
give a deposition that showed that I had
analyzed the facts that I knew something
the government didn't know or didn't
notice and I could influence real-world
outcomes frankly with nothing with
nothing but my own mind with no money
with no organization and what have you
and it was interested then as you
purposely a million times on this
channel of trying to get organized with
just five people with just ten people
with just finding a few other
intelligent people who cared about the
political issues the ecological issues
etc that I cared about and if you had
the humility and the pragmatism I knew
on that level you could make a
difference but all of that is rooted in
and relies upon commitment to a place
ultimately you have to have a fixed
address he heard me
market in recent video here by contrast
when I lived in Hong Kong I felt that I
was just there temporarily I was just
there for the money I would even say had
no mad I was an expatriate you know I
had a job in Hong Kong I was going to do
that for a certain number of months
didn't know I didn't know for how many
months living in a very uncertain
situation there too but I knew at some
point my clothes go back in the suitcase
I get back in the airplane and I leave
and that's it and politics in Hong Kong
were fascinating and extreme the
ecological situation stream many of the
problems extreme but I knew this is not
for me these are not this is not my
fight and I don't I don't want to
pretend and that's partly an emotional
and subjective decision I did not feel
that way about every country i lived in
as a foreigner for an extreme contrast
in taiwan taiwan is also culturally
chinese but taiwan is a separate country
in effect in taiwan i did want in in
taiwan not only was i I was really
passionate of with local politics than a
tremendously rewarding just to read the
newspapers there and follow what was
happening from we to read the newspapers
in English wasn't reading in Chinese in
Taiwan I was both interested in embarked
on a long-term plan of going to law
school becoming a lawyer and practicing
law locally with in Taiwan and so that I
could be part of those ongoing political
questions and in Taiwan above all else I
really had deep respect for their
democratic system Taiwanese system of
government is an imitation of western
systems of government but in in many
ways it's more impressive than the
system of government we have in Canada
and I mean that sincerely so again many
people say well what's the difference
between Hong Kong and Taiwan there are
myriad differences many objective
differences that really exists in the
world politically and and actually
physically but my point here is part of
the difference is just with me when I
was in Taiwan I felt that I could stop
being a nomad there that that was
somewhere I could live long
where I commit to the education system
the political system become part of that
society become committed to and engage
with local politics at City Hall at
whatever humble level I felt I could
make a difference that and I was going
to do that and of course that involved
years of learning the language and I was
going to ultimately go to law school and
become a lawyer there or get some
similar credential I did a lot of
research related to all those options
the different diplomas I could get the
different roads to achieve that and so
on and of course at the time I was
married to a woman who was completely
fluent in Chinese and spoken chinese she
was completely fluent so this this is
not as crazy a plan as it might seem if
you don't know maybe we don't know the
other aspects of my life but look what
if i wanted to do serious fundraising to
start a foundation to start a charity to
make a difference the world what if i
wanted to do fundraising for any kind of
a project you know much more seriously
than what I've just done on on patreon
the reality is that rests on my having a
permanent address in one place at one
time in most countries you need at least
five people sometimes 10 or 12 people
who can be the board of directors who
can sign a piece of paper for a
registered charity who can have a bank
accounts in one place at one time here
in Canada sometimes you need all the
people to live in the same province you
need all the people to meet once a year
the list of bureaucratic and procedural
requirements to have a registered
charity is really worth thinking about
it's worth thinking about who that
excludes and who that benefits in life
but if you want to make a difference you
can't you can't be a nomad so-called
digital nomadism as they say I feel I
had it forced on me it was the opposite
of what I wanted in life what I wanted
was to make a difference in the world
through pragmatic hands on politics not
ideological politics not war ito not
some
not the kind of crazy theoretical
politics I knew from communism and other
you know political philosophy I really
had the humility and pragmatism to be
the guy who went to City Hall and said
look I read this 50-page report on the
sewage treatment plan and here are the
problems in it that nobody else has
bothered to point out because
journalists won't do that and the
contractors won't do that and the people
who sit there and City Hall the elected
councillors they're not going to do it
and you know you being the one person
who read the report and did a little bit
of research you actually can have an
impact and you may you may be received
positively for that you may be valued
for meeting their contribution but
really that experience didn't change me
the whole series of changes took place
in my life to bring me up to that point
to be that guy who would go to City Hall
and do that and now obviously I could
never be that person in Cambodia I could
never be that person in Laos Laos is a
communist dictatorship I could
definitely never be that person in
Thailand Thailand is closed to
foreigners in some ways not with
discussing here but interestingly in a
place like Taiwan by contrast I thought
I want in this is a political system
this is a democracy where I can settle
down and be a meaningful part of the
struggles that are going on that include
indigenous minority languages ecology
veganism in a huge way until one sure it
was a crew that was one of the reasons I
moved back there it's not why I moved
there the first time it's but veganism
was a huge part of why I moved there the
last time a huge part of it absolutely
but if you're choosing to be a digital
nomad I think in many ways this is the
Peter Pan syndrome really it's a choice
never to accept those grown-up
responsibilities never to be part of a
community and you know you may not care
about it but it means you're never going
to own a set of dishware you're never
going to own a set of glasses a set of
cups you're never going to own any of
the things a normal
poor person owns if they just live in
the same city continuously and you're
never going to be part of a community
both in the political ways I'm talking
about in the sense of responsibility and
the sense of being good citizen you're
never going to do that and also in terms
of the benefits you might get from
really being a member of a community in
a deep sense so a lot of
autobiographical information therefore
pretty simple reflection because
basically what I have to say is be where
a lot of people are trying to glamorize
what's really a somewhat grim and
desperate situation that many people
find themselves in a 21st century of
having no medical benefits no fixed
address no home no work visa even of
having to get on an airplane every three
months because in their passport it just
says they're a tourist and of trying to
make money on the internet and trying to
make money with no real University
diploma or no real skills that'll get
you a job and in the end it's a swindle
it's a swindle because it keeps you
trapped in the situation of being a
powerless individual and for most people
if you're not born a multi-millionaire
your power is not going to come from
money your power is going to come from
community or at a minimum your power is
going to come from cooperation i'm
having some network of trust of other
people who can cooperate with you
whether that's somebody you trust enough
to babysit your children someone you
trust enough to sign a piece of paper to
be an executive with you in starting a
charity and starting foundation when i
was talking to the violent vegan he's
trying to start a little vegan business
you know obviously to promote veganism
not to make make money and he says it's
so hard to find someone he can work with
someone he can trust somebody can walk
cooperate with
well if you fly all over the world and
never build up you know home base in one
place that kind of trust cooperation
rely on other people that's real
community and that's why it's so sad
when I hear these hollow claims about
the vegan community on the Internet what
you're calling community those people
aren't going to babysit your kid they're
not going to meet you in the hospital if
you're sick they're not going to come to
your funeral if you die when you have a
problem will they really help you out
really and vice versa if you're a grown
adult you're not kid anymore who are you
helping you know you're not taking care
of your own grandparents who takes care
of you and who are you taking care of on
the tiny scale of the isolated
individual these are sort of the first
and most fundamental political problems
and it's very sad for me to see people
dodging that with the delusion that
living from one airplane ticket to the
next and living out of a backpack with a
bicycle is a you know beautiful
lifestyle it's not if it's a vacation
fine but at some point the vacations got
to end